the Israeli military claims to have
killed one of the top rocket Developers
for the islamist terror group Hamas
during an air strike on Gaza Israeli
troops are continuing to battle Hamas in
Gaza targeting underground tunnel
networks around Gaza City where Hamas
are also thought to be holding hostages
seized during the October 7 Terror
attacks Israeli air strikes pound
Gaza as Israel says the next stage of
its war on Hamas is
underway the Israel Defense Forces
release this footage of its soldiers on
the ground in
Gaza they don't name specific locations
but ground troops are believed to be
targeting the complex webs of
underground tunnels as Israeli troops
get further into Gaza City the tunnel
systems are going to be a real problem
and and they' be extremely well they
won't clear any until they're sure no
hostages are there this is the number
one priority the Israeli military could
aim to drive Hamas militants out of the
tunnels or blow the tunnels up or even
flood them with
seawater Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
Netanyahu says his troops are making
progress above and below ground in
Gaza the fighting in the south is
advancing with a force that Hamas hasn't
known Kaza city is
encircled we are operating in
and deepening the pressure on Hamas
every hour every
day so far we have killed thousands of
terrorists above the ground and under
the
ground as Israeli troops Advance on Gaza
City in the north armored IDF vehicles
are also gathering on Israel's Southern
border with
Gaza and the Israeli Navy released
footage of operations off the coast of
Gaza
Israel is targeting Hamas by air on land
and potentially soon by
sea our correspondent T kma in Jerusalem
told us more about the idf's operation
in and around Gaza
City well I mean the Israeli military
stays very vague as to the locations
where they are exactly but we heard from
army officials that they're closing in
uh on Gaza City Gaza City is a huge City
with many neighborhoods that they're
operating in some of them but I mean
their main target is we understand they
in shti uh you know with air strikes
also probably one of the the the areas
of interest is the shiffer hospital
which is in the center uh of Gaza City
the Army also said that they have found
and destroyed 130 tunnel shafts uh that
they have you know seen on their ways uh
in uh military experts also talk more
about these days about you know mounting
pressure to possibly come to a a
temporary ceasefire that would be put on
the Israeli government that has of
course rejected uh these calls so far
but seeing the mounting death to among
uh Palestinians and and civilians in the
Gaza Strip um but so far there's no of
course call for a full ceasefire here
that's would not be responded so we also
saw today again thousands on the move
again from the north to the South as the
Army has called on residents that are
still in the north to move southwards
but we understand that 1.5 million at
least that's an estimated number by uh
the United Nations are on the move out
of the 2.3 million uh population of Gaza
between um in the North or the South and
we also understand that air strikes
continuing as well in the south of
Gaza Tanya the war is now entering its
second month are Israelis is overall
satisfied with the way that government
is handling this
conflict well I think you could say that
um you know there's an overall support
for these War efforts people are still
also coming to terms what happened on uh
October 7th the the terror attack and uh
there's a coming together in this but of
course um there is a question what is
happening to the 200 over 240 hostages
and there's a lot of criticism level by
the families and relatives uh against
the government how they're handling it
there's also there are more questions
about uh where will this war Go I mean
it's going on now for uh uh over four
weeks now and also there's a lot of
criticism leveled at Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu himself because he
hasn't taken responsibility so far for
the intelligence failures leading up to
October 7th T you me mentioned the
hostages there are reports that Qatar is
trying to mediate for a possible release
of at least some hostages what do you
know about
that well these are unconfirmed reports
that you know where in the media in the
past days that Qatar is actually coming
closer to some kind of breakthrough that
could see between 10 to 15 hostages
released there was also a statement
earlier in the week by the Hamas Kasam
Brigade saying that they would be
willing to release uh about dozens of
hostages uh but that Israel is not
responding now we also understand you
know prime minister Benjamin Nan himself
has said he wouldn't go for a temporary
ceasefire that would be needed to
release those hostages unless all the
hostages are released so the situation
is as always in such situations when it
comes to you know negotiations behind
closed doors unclear and we just have to
wait and see you know what the next
hours will bring in this regard Tanya K
in Jerusalem there thank you
Tanya Mike Martin is a senior fellow for
war studies at King's College in London
I asked him what Hamas tunnel Network
looks like and how long it might have
taken to
build uh well I think Hamas have been
building it uh for the last 15 years
since the Israelis last 18 years in fact
since the Israelis pulled out from the
Gaza Strip in 2005 um what it looks like
imagine uh the above ground landscape
but mirrored underground so you have
tunnels at different levels so you have
communications tunnels at a higher level
and stores of supplies and Rockets
further down and the whole thing exists
in three dimensions with some of the
tunnels up to 50 or even 80 M
deep uh you just mentioned that some of
them are 80 M deep and the whole network
be like 500 km long others say that is
exag at so your take is that it is the
size of the this web is
correct look in reality we don't know
and I think it's also important to
stress that there's probably no one
within Hamas who knows the entire uh
network of tunnels the nature of Hamas
is it's a decentralized organization so
different people will understand
different sectors of the network um but
it is extensive it's sufficiently
extensive that it can and withstands the
bombardment that we've seen over the
last few days Hamas was still able to
continue firing Rockets back at Israel
using this tunnel system even though it
was under very very heavy aerial
bombardment so it is quite a successful
operation from
Hamas now Israel seems to have tasked a
special unit a special combat
engineering unit to find out more about
the location and structure of these
tunnels how exactly will they do
that h
um well there are a number of ways the
the chief way is by using ground
penetrating radar and that's not perfect
because obviously different types of
ground have different reflexive
signatures and there are other things
like sewers and other layers within the
ground but that is a chief way of
understanding the tunnel Network or at
least where the tunnel start closer to
the ground and then you can trace them
uh using robots and other uh uh you know
drones that are able to move through
those tunnels to see where they go to
there are suspicions that the hostages
uh that Hamas is holding are being held
in that tunnel Network now when an army
unit gets into these tunnels to uh um
how how can they rescue these uh
hostages and how can they avoid to kill
them
accidentally so I I think the key well
firstly I think not all of the hostages
are held in tummel I think a large
proportion of them are um but the key
here is reconnaissance so if you
discover the location of a tunnel
perhaps with ground penetrating radar
like we just said the next thing you
need to do is get some sort of unmanned
like a drone or something on wheels or
perhaps a fiber optic cable with a
camera so imagine the telescopic surgery
that we do every day in hospitals get
one of them down the tunnels to see
what's going on and then once you can
see what's happening in the tunnel you
can look at different ways of assaulting
them obviously a key way is just to pump
them full of anesthetic gas so it knocks
everyone out and they they everyone's
unconscious and then you can move in and
separate the hostages from the hostage
takers now some are also speculating uh
that Israel may use a so-called sponge
bomb what is that
exactly uh it's expanding foam
so if you have a tunnel that perhaps
you've done your recon you know it's an
arms dump or you know that it's only
full of Fighters then you can either
seal off the entrance or seal off a
critical Junction with this particular
type of munition which basically creates
expanding foam and it like you do on a
building site or or somewhere else it
will explode and fill up all the cracks
in the tunnels with a foam that then
hardens so it's it's soft at first but
then hardens into a very hard substance
and it's seals off the
tunnels Mike Martin there from Kings
College London thank you very much
Mike thank
you